README.md, before:

angular-file-upload
===================

Lightweight Angular JS directive to upload files.<br/>**See the <a href="http://angular-file-upload.appspot.com/" target="_blank">DEMO</a> page**

Table of Content:
* [Features](#features)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Old Browsers](#old_browsers)
* [Server Side](#server)
* [Install (Bower)](#install)
* [Questions, Issues and Contribution](#contrib)

##<a name="features"></a> Features
* File upload for `HTML5` and `non-HTML5` browsers with Flash polyfill [FileAPI](https://github.com/mailru/FileAPI). Allows client side validation before uploading the file
* Uses regular `$http` to upload (with shim for non-HTML5 browsers) so all angular `$http` features are available
* Supports upload progress
* Supports cancel/abort upload while in progress
* Supports File drag and drop (HTML5 only)
* Supports Directory drag and drop (webkit only)
* Supports CORS
* All `non-HTML5` code is in a separate shim file and could be easily removed if you only supports `HTML5`. (html5-shim.js is needed for `progress` event though)
* Flash `FileAPI` will be loaded on demand for `non-HTML5` FormData browsers so no extra load for `HTML5` browsers.
* `$upload` method can be configured to be either `POST` or `PUT` for HTML5 browsers.
* `$upload.http()` enables progress event for angular http `POST`/`PUT` requests. You can upload file content with the `Content-Type` of the file to CouchDB, imgur, etc... for `HTML5` `FileReader` browsers. See [#88(comment)](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/88#issuecomment-31366487) for discussion and usage.

##<a name="usage"></a> Usage

HTML:
```html
<!-- shim is needed to support upload progress/abort for HTML5 and non-HTML5 FormData browsers.-->
<!-- angular-file-upload-html5-shim.js could be used instead of angular-file-upload-shim if your app 
targets HTML5 browsers only (not IE8-9) -->
<!-- Note: shim.js MUST BE PLACED BEFORE angular.js and angular-file-upload.js AFTER angular.js-->
<script src="angular-file-upload-shim.min.js"></script> 
<script src="angular.min.js"></script>
<script src="angular-file-upload.min.js"></script> 

<div ng-controller="MyCtrl">
  <input type="text" ng-model="myModelObj">
  <input type="file" ng-file-select="onFileSelect($files)">
  <input type="file" ng-file-select="onFileSelect($files)" multiple accept="image/*">
  <div class="button" ng-file-select="onFileSelect($files)" data-multiple="true"></div>
  <div ng-file-drop="onFileSelect($files)" ng-file-drag-over-class="optional-css-class-name-or-function"
        ng-show="dropSupported">drop files here</div>
  <div ng-file-drop-available="dropSupported=true" 
        ng-show="!dropSupported">HTML5 Drop File is not supported!</div>
  <button ng-click="upload.abort()">Cancel Upload</button>
</div>
```

JS:
```js
//inject angular file upload directives and service.
angular.module('myApp', ['angularFileUpload']);

var MyCtrl = [ '$scope', '$upload', function($scope, $upload) {
  $scope.onFileSelect = function($files) {
    //$files: an array of files selected, each file has name, size, and type.
    for (var i = 0; i < $files.length; i++) {
      var file = $files[i];
      $scope.upload = $upload.upload({
        url: 'server/upload/url', //upload.php script, node.js route, or servlet url
        //method: 'POST' or 'PUT',
        //headers: {'header-key': 'header-value'},
        //withCredentials: true,
        data: {myObj: $scope.myModelObj},
        file: file, // or list of files ($files) for html5 only
        //fileName: 'doc.jpg' or ['1.jpg', '2.jpg', ...] // to modify the name of the file(s)
        // customize file formData name ('Content-Disposition'), server side file variable name. 
        //fileFormDataName: myFile, //or a list of names for multiple files (html5). Default is 'file' 
        // customize how data is added to formData. See #40#issuecomment-28612000 for sample code
        //formDataAppender: function(formData, key, val){}
      }).progress(function(evt) {
        console.log('percent: ' + parseInt(100.0 * evt.loaded / evt.total));
      }).success(function(data, status, headers, config) {
        // file is uploaded successfully
        console.log(data);
      });
      //.error(...)
      //.then(success, error, progress); 
      // access or attach event listeners to the underlying XMLHttpRequest.
      //.xhr(function(xhr){xhr.upload.addEventListener(...)})
    }
    /* alternative way of uploading, send the file binary with the file's content-type.
       Could be used to upload files to CouchDB, imgur, etc... html5 FileReader is needed. 
       It could also be used to monitor the progress of a normal http post/put request with large data*/
    // $scope.upload = $upload.http({...})  see 88#issuecomment-31366487 for sample code.
  };
}];
```

**Order of scripts**: `angular-file-upload-shim.js` must be loaded before `angular.js` and is only needed if you are supporting non-HTML5 FormData browsers or you need to support upload progress or cancel.

**Upload multiple files**: Only for HTML5 FormData browsers (not IE8-9) if you pass an array of files to `file` option it will upload all of them together in one request. In this case the `fileFormDataName` could be an array of names or a single string. For Rails or depending on your server append square brackets to the end (i.e. `file[]`).
If you want a cross browser approach you need to iterate through files and upload them one by one like the code above. This is due to the limitation of Flash file upload.

**$upload.http()**: You can also use `$upload.http()` to send the file binary or any data to the server while being able to listen to progress event. See [#88](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/88) for more details.
This equivalent to angular $http() but allow you to listen to progress event for HTML5 browsers.

**Rails progress event**: If your server is Rails and Apache you may need to modify server configurations for the server to support upload progress. See [#207](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/207)

**drag and drop styling**: For file drag and drop, `ng-file-drag-over-class` can be a function that returns a class name based on the $event. See the demo for a sample. If the attribute is not specified by default the element will have "dragover" class on drag over which could be used to style the drop zone.
You can also specify `ng-file-drag-over-delay` to fix css3 transition issues from dragging over/out/over [#277](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/277).

##<a name="old_browsers"></a> Old browsers

For browsers not supporting HTML5 FormData (IE8, IE9, ...) [FileAPI](https://github.com/mailru/FileAPI) module is used. 
For these browsers these two files are needed:  **`FileAPI.min.js`, `FileAPI.flash.swf`** which will be loaded if the browser does not supports HTML5 FormData (no extra load for HTML5 browsers).

**Note**: Flash needs to be installed on the client browser since `FileAPI` uses Flash to upload files.
**CORS**: To enable CORS
You can put these two files beside `angular-file-upload-shim(.min).js` on your server to be loaded automatically on demand or optionally you can use the following script to set the FileAPI load path if they are not at the same location:
```html
<script>
    //optional need to be loaded before angular-file-upload-shim(.min).js
    FileAPI = {
        //only one of jsPath or jsUrl.
        jsPath: '/js/FileAPI.min.js/folder/', 
        jsUrl: 'yourcdn.com/js/FileAPI.min.js',
        
        //only one of staticPath or flashUrl.
        staticPath: '/flash/FileAPI.flash.swf/folder/',
        flashUrl: 'yourcdn.com/js/FileAPI.flash.swf',

        //forceLoad: true, html5: false //to debug flash in HTML5 browsers
    }
</script>
<script src="angular-file-upload-shim.min.js"></script>...
```
**Old browsers known issues**: 
* Because of a Flash limitation/bug the server needs to send a response body in order for the success and error callbacks to work properly. See [163#issuecomment](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/163#issuecomment-39839508)
* In case of an error response (http code >= 400) the response body or error message will not be available. Flash just provide a generic code and ignores the response text. [#310](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/310)
* Custom headers will not work due to a Flash limitation [#111](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/111) [#224](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/224) [#129](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/129)
* Due to Flash bug [#92](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/92) Server HTTP error code 400 will be returned as 200 to the client. So avoid returning 400 on your server side for upload response otherwise it will be treated as a success response on the client side.

##<a name="server"></a>Server Side
####CORS
To support CORS upload your server needs to allow cross domain requests. You can achive that by having a filter or interceptor on your upload file server to add CORS headers to the response similar to this:
([sample java code](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/blob/master/demo/src/com/df/angularfileupload/CORSFilter.java))
```java
httpResp.setHeader("Access-Control-Allow-Methods", "POST, PUT, OPTIONS");
httpResp.setHeader("Access-Control-Allow-Origin", "your.other.server.com");
httpResp.setHeader("Access-Control-Allow-Headers", "Content-Type"));
```
For non-HTML5 IE8-9 browsers you would also need a `crossdomain.xml` file at the root of your server to allow CORS for flash:
([sample xml](http://angular-file-upload.appspot.com/crossdomain.xml))
```xml
<cross-domain-policy>
  <site-control permitted-cross-domain-policies="all"/>
  <allow-access-from domain="angular-file-upload.appspot.com"/>
  <allow-http-request-headers-from domain="*" headers="*" secure="false"/>
</cross-domain-policy>
```

####Samples
* **Amazon S3 Upload**: [nukulb](https://github.com/nukulb) has provided an example here https://github.com/hubba/s3-angular-file-upload
* **Node.js**: [Sample wiki page](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/wiki/node.js-example) provided by [chovy](https://github.com/chovy)
* **Java/GAE**: You can find the sample server code in Java/GAE [here](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/blob/master/demo/src/com/df/angularfileupload/)

##<a name="install"></a> Install

Download latest release from [here](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload-bower/releases) or if you are using bower
```sh
#notice 'ng' at the beginning of the module name not 'angular'
bower install ng-file-upload 
```
Make sure to load the scripts in your html file exactly in this order as described in the Usage: 
```html
<script src="angular-file-upload-shim(.min).js"></script> 
<script src="angular(.min).js"></script>
<script src="angular-file-upload(.min).js"></script> 
```

Or for yeoman with bower automatic include:
```
bower install ng-file-upload -save
bower install ng-file-upload-shim -save
```
bower.json
```
{
  "dependencies": [..., "ng-file-upload-shim", "angularjs", "ng-file-upload", ...],
}
```

##<a name="contrib"></a> Issues & Contribution

For questions, bug reports, and feature request please search through existing [issue](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues) and if you don't find and answer open a new one  [here](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/new). If you need support send me an [email](danial.farid@gmail.com) to set up a session through [HackHands](https://hackhands.com/). You can also contact [me](https://github.com/danialfarid) for any non public concerns.

If you like the plugin give it a thumbs up at [http://ngmodules.org/modules/angular-file-upload](http://ngmodules.org/modules/angular-file-upload),
<br/>also get me a <a target="_blank" href="http://angular-file-upload.appspot.com/donate.html">cup of tea <img src="http://angular-file-upload.appspot.com/img/tea.png" width="40" height="24" title="Icon made by Freepik.com"></a> so I add features and fixes faster.

Commit message:

Add last step for including the module in Angular

README.md, after:

angular-file-upload
===================

Lightweight Angular JS directive to upload files.<br/>**See the <a href="http://angular-file-upload.appspot.com/" target="_blank">DEMO</a> page**

Table of Content:
* [Features](#features)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Old Browsers](#old_browsers)
* [Server Side](#server)
* [Install (Bower)](#install)
* [Questions, Issues and Contribution](#contrib)

##<a name="features"></a> Features
* File upload for `HTML5` and `non-HTML5` browsers with Flash polyfill [FileAPI](https://github.com/mailru/FileAPI). Allows client side validation before uploading the file
* Uses regular `$http` to upload (with shim for non-HTML5 browsers) so all angular `$http` features are available
* Supports upload progress
* Supports cancel/abort upload while in progress
* Supports File drag and drop (HTML5 only)
* Supports Directory drag and drop (webkit only)
* Supports CORS
* All `non-HTML5` code is in a separate shim file and could be easily removed if you only supports `HTML5`. (html5-shim.js is needed for `progress` event though)
* Flash `FileAPI` will be loaded on demand for `non-HTML5` FormData browsers so no extra load for `HTML5` browsers.
* `$upload` method can be configured to be either `POST` or `PUT` for HTML5 browsers.
* `$upload.http()` enables progress event for angular http `POST`/`PUT` requests. You can upload file content with the `Content-Type` of the file to CouchDB, imgur, etc... for `HTML5` `FileReader` browsers. See [#88(comment)](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/88#issuecomment-31366487) for discussion and usage.

##<a name="usage"></a> Usage

HTML:
```html
<!-- shim is needed to support upload progress/abort for HTML5 and non-HTML5 FormData browsers.-->
<!-- angular-file-upload-html5-shim.js could be used instead of angular-file-upload-shim if your app 
targets HTML5 browsers only (not IE8-9) -->
<!-- Note: shim.js MUST BE PLACED BEFORE angular.js and angular-file-upload.js AFTER angular.js-->
<script src="angular-file-upload-shim.min.js"></script> 
<script src="angular.min.js"></script>
<script src="angular-file-upload.min.js"></script> 

<div ng-controller="MyCtrl">
  <input type="text" ng-model="myModelObj">
  <input type="file" ng-file-select="onFileSelect($files)">
  <input type="file" ng-file-select="onFileSelect($files)" multiple accept="image/*">
  <div class="button" ng-file-select="onFileSelect($files)" data-multiple="true"></div>
  <div ng-file-drop="onFileSelect($files)" ng-file-drag-over-class="optional-css-class-name-or-function"
        ng-show="dropSupported">drop files here</div>
  <div ng-file-drop-available="dropSupported=true" 
        ng-show="!dropSupported">HTML5 Drop File is not supported!</div>
  <button ng-click="upload.abort()">Cancel Upload</button>
</div>
```

JS:
```js
//inject angular file upload directives and service.
angular.module('myApp', ['angularFileUpload']);

var MyCtrl = [ '$scope', '$upload', function($scope, $upload) {
  $scope.onFileSelect = function($files) {
    //$files: an array of files selected, each file has name, size, and type.
    for (var i = 0; i < $files.length; i++) {
      var file = $files[i];
      $scope.upload = $upload.upload({
        url: 'server/upload/url', //upload.php script, node.js route, or servlet url
        //method: 'POST' or 'PUT',
        //headers: {'header-key': 'header-value'},
        //withCredentials: true,
        data: {myObj: $scope.myModelObj},
        file: file, // or list of files ($files) for html5 only
        //fileName: 'doc.jpg' or ['1.jpg', '2.jpg', ...] // to modify the name of the file(s)
        // customize file formData name ('Content-Disposition'), server side file variable name. 
        //fileFormDataName: myFile, //or a list of names for multiple files (html5). Default is 'file' 
        // customize how data is added to formData. See #40#issuecomment-28612000 for sample code
        //formDataAppender: function(formData, key, val){}
      }).progress(function(evt) {
        console.log('percent: ' + parseInt(100.0 * evt.loaded / evt.total));
      }).success(function(data, status, headers, config) {
        // file is uploaded successfully
        console.log(data);
      });
      //.error(...)
      //.then(success, error, progress); 
      // access or attach event listeners to the underlying XMLHttpRequest.
      //.xhr(function(xhr){xhr.upload.addEventListener(...)})
    }
    /* alternative way of uploading, send the file binary with the file's content-type.
       Could be used to upload files to CouchDB, imgur, etc... html5 FileReader is needed. 
       It could also be used to monitor the progress of a normal http post/put request with large data*/
    // $scope.upload = $upload.http({...})  see 88#issuecomment-31366487 for sample code.
  };
}];
```

**Order of scripts**: `angular-file-upload-shim.js` must be loaded before `angular.js` and is only needed if you are supporting non-HTML5 FormData browsers or you need to support upload progress or cancel.

**Upload multiple files**: Only for HTML5 FormData browsers (not IE8-9) if you pass an array of files to `file` option it will upload all of them together in one request. In this case the `fileFormDataName` could be an array of names or a single string. For Rails or depending on your server append square brackets to the end (i.e. `file[]`).
If you want a cross browser approach you need to iterate through files and upload them one by one like the code above. This is due to the limitation of Flash file upload.

**$upload.http()**: You can also use `$upload.http()` to send the file binary or any data to the server while being able to listen to progress event. See [#88](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/88) for more details.
This equivalent to angular $http() but allow you to listen to progress event for HTML5 browsers.

**Rails progress event**: If your server is Rails and Apache you may need to modify server configurations for the server to support upload progress. See [#207](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/207)

**drag and drop styling**: For file drag and drop, `ng-file-drag-over-class` can be a function that returns a class name based on the $event. See the demo for a sample. If the attribute is not specified by default the element will have "dragover" class on drag over which could be used to style the drop zone.
You can also specify `ng-file-drag-over-delay` to fix css3 transition issues from dragging over/out/over [#277](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/277).

##<a name="old_browsers"></a> Old browsers

For browsers not supporting HTML5 FormData (IE8, IE9, ...) [FileAPI](https://github.com/mailru/FileAPI) module is used. 
For these browsers these two files are needed:  **`FileAPI.min.js`, `FileAPI.flash.swf`** which will be loaded if the browser does not supports HTML5 FormData (no extra load for HTML5 browsers).

**Note**: Flash needs to be installed on the client browser since `FileAPI` uses Flash to upload files.
**CORS**: To enable CORS
You can put these two files beside `angular-file-upload-shim(.min).js` on your server to be loaded automatically on demand or optionally you can use the following script to set the FileAPI load path if they are not at the same location:
```html
<script>
    //optional need to be loaded before angular-file-upload-shim(.min).js
    FileAPI = {
        //only one of jsPath or jsUrl.
        jsPath: '/js/FileAPI.min.js/folder/', 
        jsUrl: 'yourcdn.com/js/FileAPI.min.js',
        
        //only one of staticPath or flashUrl.
        staticPath: '/flash/FileAPI.flash.swf/folder/',
        flashUrl: 'yourcdn.com/js/FileAPI.flash.swf',

        //forceLoad: true, html5: false //to debug flash in HTML5 browsers
    }
</script>
<script src="angular-file-upload-shim.min.js"></script>...
```
**Old browsers known issues**: 
* Because of a Flash limitation/bug the server needs to send a response body in order for the success and error callbacks to work properly. See [163#issuecomment](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/163#issuecomment-39839508)
* In case of an error response (http code >= 400) the response body or error message will not be available. Flash just provide a generic code and ignores the response text. [#310](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/310)
* Custom headers will not work due to a Flash limitation [#111](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/111) [#224](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/224) [#129](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/129)
* Due to Flash bug [#92](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/92) Server HTTP error code 400 will be returned as 200 to the client. So avoid returning 400 on your server side for upload response otherwise it will be treated as a success response on the client side.

##<a name="server"></a>Server Side
####CORS
To support CORS upload your server needs to allow cross domain requests. You can achive that by having a filter or interceptor on your upload file server to add CORS headers to the response similar to this:
([sample java code](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/blob/master/demo/src/com/df/angularfileupload/CORSFilter.java))
```java
httpResp.setHeader("Access-Control-Allow-Methods", "POST, PUT, OPTIONS");
httpResp.setHeader("Access-Control-Allow-Origin", "your.other.server.com");
httpResp.setHeader("Access-Control-Allow-Headers", "Content-Type"));
```
For non-HTML5 IE8-9 browsers you would also need a `crossdomain.xml` file at the root of your server to allow CORS for flash:
([sample xml](http://angular-file-upload.appspot.com/crossdomain.xml))
```xml
<cross-domain-policy>
  <site-control permitted-cross-domain-policies="all"/>
  <allow-access-from domain="angular-file-upload.appspot.com"/>
  <allow-http-request-headers-from domain="*" headers="*" secure="false"/>
</cross-domain-policy>
```

####Samples
* **Amazon S3 Upload**: [nukulb](https://github.com/nukulb) has provided an example here https://github.com/hubba/s3-angular-file-upload
* **Node.js**: [Sample wiki page](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/wiki/node.js-example) provided by [chovy](https://github.com/chovy)
* **Java/GAE**: You can find the sample server code in Java/GAE [here](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/blob/master/demo/src/com/df/angularfileupload/)

##<a name="install"></a> Install

Download latest release from [here](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload-bower/releases) or if you are using bower
```sh
#notice 'ng' at the beginning of the module name not 'angular'
bower install ng-file-upload 
```
Make sure to load the scripts in your html file exactly in this order as described in the Usage: 
```html
<script src="angular-file-upload-shim(.min).js"></script> 
<script src="angular(.min).js"></script>
<script src="angular-file-upload(.min).js"></script> 
```

Also make sure to include the file in the app-level dependencies, like so:
```
angular.module('kbase', ['ngRoute', ..., 'angularFileUpload'])
```

Or for yeoman with bower automatic include:
```
bower install ng-file-upload -save
bower install ng-file-upload-shim -save
```
bower.json
```
{
  "dependencies": [..., "ng-file-upload-shim", "angularjs", "ng-file-upload", ...],
}
```

##<a name="contrib"></a> Issues & Contribution

For questions, bug reports, and feature request please search through existing [issue](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues) and if you don't find and answer open a new one  [here](https://github.com/danialfarid/angular-file-upload/issues/new). If you need support send me an [email](danial.farid@gmail.com) to set up a session through [HackHands](https://hackhands.com/). You can also contact [me](https://github.com/danialfarid) for any non public concerns.

If you like the plugin give it a thumbs up at [http://ngmodules.org/modules/angular-file-upload](http://ngmodules.org/modules/angular-file-upload),
<br/>also get me a <a target="_blank" href="http://angular-file-upload.appspot.com/donate.html">cup of tea <img src="http://angular-file-upload.appspot.com/img/tea.png" width="40" height="24" title="Icon made by Freepik.com"></a> so I add features and fixes faster.
